[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>GREG NOORY: Welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
I'm George Noory.
For years, we have investigated
the Starchild Project
with the late Lloyd Pye.
Now, two investigators
have come forward
with more information, Chase
Kloetzke and Kerry McClure.
This, of course, is a
replica of the Starchild,
which is a creature that
was discovered years ago.
And you will notice
the elongation
of the back of the skull, where
many people thought, maybe,
just maybe, this is of
extraterrestrial origin.
Welcome, Chase and Kerry.
Great to have you
on "Beyond Belief."
>>KERRY MCCLURE: Thank you.
>>CHASE KLOETZKE: It's
great to be with you.
>>NOORY: This is
a replica, right?
It's not the real thing.
>>KLOETZKE: It is a
replica, absolutely.
>>NOORY: Where is
the real Starchild?
>>KLOETZKE: The
real Starchild skull
is with Melanie Young,
the original owner.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>KLOETZKE: Yeah, it's kept in
a protected place at the moment,
because of the laws.
It's illegal to transport,
profit from, display
the skull further.
>>NOORY: Give us a little
background, Chase, if you can,
into the Starchild and
where it was discovered,
how it was discovered.
And of course, we'll
talk a little bit
about the work of
the late Lloyd Pye
and then your brand new work.
Because we're going to reveal
some new information today
on "Beyond Belief."
But tell us about the project.
>>KLOETZKE: The project started
with Melanie Young approaching
me at a conference.
And I had just finished talking
about admissibility and DNA
and how the forensic scientific
approach is not only necessary
but required in
today's investigations.
And she asked me to take over
and conduct further examination
from where Lloyd Pye finished.
Didn't want to do it that way.
I felt, out of respect, that
I wanted to have Lloyd's work,
not stand on his shoulders.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>KLOETZKE: But I did agree to
look at it as a brand new case,
like a cold case.
Let me just go in blind
and start from scratch
with new eyes.
>>NOORY: Well, Lloyd was a
guest on "Coast to Coast"
for years with me.
>>KLOETZKE: Yeah.
>>NOORY: And all he
wanted was authentication.
>>KLOETZKE: Exactly.
>>NOORY: Because we would
talk for hours about,
is it extraterrestrial?
Is it a human?
A deformed human?
He said, I just want
to get to the facts
and get to the bottom line.
That's what I'd like.
His own personal
beliefs were important.
But he just wanted the truth.
Where was this
discovered exactly?
>>KLOETZKE: Mexico.
And we don't have a definitive
or what we would call
a probative chain-of-custody.
So it's really oral
history or he-said she-said
coming up to where Melanie Young
can tell the story that she
was told from the person
she received the skull from.
So at this point,
it basically was
found in a cave near Chihuahua's
Copper Mines area of Mexico.
>>NOORY: These
caves-- everything's
in caves these days.
>>KLOETZKE: Everything's
in caves exactly.
>>MCCLURE: It's preserved.
>>NOORY: Was there
more to the body?
Or was it just the
skull that they found?
>>MCCLURE: There was a
whole skeleton next to it
with a typical skull,
with a normal skull.
And then there was a body
found with that as well.
And that was buried under
some dust, debris, dirt.
And because it was in a cave,
it was preserved that way.
It wasn't compacted.
The bones didn't deteriorate.
>>NOORY: And in order for it
to be called the Starchild,
it was because it was a
smaller specimen, compared
to the one they found it with.
Because I think they
thought, maybe, the mother
was with the child when
they both perished?
>>NOORY: Absolutely, and DNA
results that Lloyd uncovered
found that the adult
female skull found with
the Starchild's skull--
they're not related.
>>NOORY: They're
not related at all.
>>MCCLURE: Mm-hm.
No.
>>NOORY: Maybe a friend.
Maybe a nanny.
>>MCCLURE: Yeah, exactly.
>>NOORY: Who knows.
Who knows.
>>MCCLURE: That's one of the--
>>NOORY: Well, of
course, the work
was started by the
great late Lloyd Pye.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- Hi, I'm Lloyd Pye.
And this is an exact
stereo-lithographic copy
of the famous Starchild skull.
The Starchild skull is
a real, true, bone skull
that was found in Mexico
around the Copper Canyon area,
about 1930.
Carbon-14 analysis
has shown that it
died about 900 years ago.
As you can see, it is
very different in shape
from a typical human skull.
But over the last 10 years,
with the Starchild Project,
we've had dozens of
experts examine it.
And they can come up with no
kind of typical human deformity
that matches all of the usual
things about this skull.
It's unusual physiology
begins with the bone itself.
It's uniformly half as
thick as normal human bone.
And it weighs half as much.
It's very light by comparison.
And yet, it's two or
three times as hard.
It's extremely durable.
We think some of durability
comes from very unusual fibers,
woven through the matrix
of the bone, never seen
in any other animal of any kind.
There's also a red
residue found in the bone
in the cancellous
holes that is also
very unlike any other
bone that is known.
So you have those unusual
attributes right off the bat.
Then, in the rear,
we see that it
lacks an inion, which is
that knot that we all have
in the back rear of our heads.
Everybody has that.
Chimps have it.
Gorillas have it.
Everything has it.
And that's where your
neck muscles attach.
It's neck muscles
attach all the way
down here, right on top
of the foramen magnum,
meaning it has a
very small neck,
like half the size of
a normal human neck.
And it sits at a
different angle.
The head sits at
a different angle
than a normal human head--
very different.
Chewing muscle very much
reduced-- normally up here--
down here in the Starchild.
Very small lower face--
look at these eye sockets.
Look how shallow
they are, not even as
deep as the first knuckle of my
finger, not even a full inch.
In a human being, two full
inches, all the way up
to here-- that depth.
The eyes themselves
are centered down here
in the middle of the
nose, so that the eyes are
down here, rather than up at
the top like our eyes-- very,
very unusual eyes,
unusual in so many ways.
No sinuses in here.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: Chase, what
would this entity look
like if there was a
drawing of the head?
What do you think?
>>KLOETZKE: We had a FBI
forensic artist actually
reconstruct and
replace the bones
that obviously were on
the Starchild at one time.
You could put it together.
And there was a definite,
very normal looking child.
Unfortunately--
>>NOORY: Did it look deformed?
>>KLOETZKE: Well, of
course, because of--
>>MCCLURE: [INAUDIBLE]
of the close-set eyes.
There's probably a lot of
something going on right here
that just doesn't look normal.
>>NOORY: Did your work start
before or after Lloyd Pye died?
>>KLOETZKE: After.
>>NOORY: After he died.
>>MCCLURE: Mm-hm.
>>KLOETZKE: Two years after.
>>NOORY: So you picked up the
gauntlet after he passed on.
>>MCCLURE: Yeah.
>>KLOETZKE: Yeah, and I hadn't
really thought of it like that.
When Melanie first asked
if I would take this on,
it was a huge challenge
to me to say yes.
Because Lloyd was so sincere, so
loved, and had worked so hard.
He spent 16 years of his
life completely devoted
to this skull.
And I didn't want to degrade
any of that awesome reputation--
>>NOORY: Right, I understand.
>>KLOETZKE: --or that fondness.
And what if we
found something that
was contradictive
or contraindicated?
He wasn't here with us to
partner with us to go forward.
So it was a huge challenge.
And I almost did not accept
it, because there's also
a community--
>>NOORY: Mm-hm.
>>KLOETZKE: --a
community of people
all over the world,
tens of thousands
that follow every word
on this Starchild skull.
And we were all hoping--
all hoping-- for
awesome results.
I've been doing this since 1994.
>>NOORY: Yeah, it's
been a long time.
>>KLOETZKE: I'm
looking for evidence
of UFOs or extraterrestrials.
And I thought this was the
world's, probably, best
chance, the best
piece of evidence
we had that we could test.
And it's been--
>>NOORY: You have seen
the Gaia special reports,
"Nazca Unearthed," right?
>>MCCLURE: Yes.
>>KLOETZKE: Yeah.
>>NOORY: And there are some
similarities in the look,
with this skull
and those skulls.
Now, those skulls look a
little more elongated to me,
a little more alien-gray
type, than this one does.
To me, looking at this skull
and, of course, the side of it,
doesn't look that
extraterrestrial to me.
How about you?
>>KLOETZKE: When we
really examined--
when you get your
hands on the skull
and can actually look at
certain things, it is bulbous.
It's brachycephalic, absolutely.
But the flatness on
the back is explained
by a very modern syndrome these
days, called flathead syndrome.
So if, for some
reason, this child
was deformed to the
point of immobility,
he probably would have
laid on his back a lot.
Because one thing we have--
>>NOORY: Yeah, they didn't
have wheelchairs then, right?
>>KLOETZKE: Right, exactly.
>>MCCLURE: And it
was found in Mexico.
So these were most likely
Native American family members,
where they just carried their
children on their backs.
>>NOORY: Would they have
kept the child alive?
Or would they have
for ended it's life?
Terminated it?
>>MCCLURE: Well, everyone
agrees that it's probably
around 5-years-old.
So somebody cared for him.
>>NOORY: Kept it alive.
>>MCCLURE: Right.
>>KLOETZKE: Right.
>>MCCLURE: And he
had teeth growing in.
He shows healthy
signs of growing.
>>KLOETZKE: Yes, yes.
He was--
>>MCCLURE: So
somebody loved him.
Somebody did, yes.
>>NOORY: No way to
determine how it died?
>>MCCLURE: My kids
asked me that.
And I thought, oh, I
never thought of that!
Because I don't think it--
>>NOORY: Smart kid.
>>MCCLURE: --was a malnutrition.
I know.
And I thought, if
it was immobile,
it could have died of
something as simple
as pneumonia, just
because it's not moving.
>>KLOETZKE: 900 years ago.
>>MCCLURE: Yeah.
And when the little girl
found the skeletons in a cave,
she said also that its
body was deformed too.
So that also leads to it
not being very mobile.
And with its flat head--
>>NOORY: Sure.
Of course--
>>MCCLURE: Yeah, and that
leads to the lack of an inion
too, actually, right?
>>NOORY: But the
variable here is
the body of the woman
found near the baby, right?
>>MCCLURE: Yeah.
>>KLOETZKE: Which--
her skull proved
to be very interesting
to the X-ray techs
and to some of the people that
really study the oseology,
especially in skulls.
Because she had numerous--
I believe we counted over
15 concussion fractures.
>>NOORY: Oh, really?
>>KLOETZKE: Yes.
>>MCCLURE: And on her skull--
>>NOORY: Like it might
have been beaten?
>>KLOETZKE: Up-- absolutely.
>>MCCLURE: Yes.
>>KLOETZKE: And--
>>NOORY: That's intriguing.
>>KLOETZKE: --very evident.
And there were a
lot of experts, when
they saw the skulls,
they'd run right over,
because they were discussing
these concussion fractures.
And like, but the Starchild
skull's right here.
But they seemed very
interested in that.
Of course, with football
players and this being
one of the biggest
discoveries right now.
>>NOORY: Would these individuals
have been considered Aztecs,
because it was found in Mexico?
>>MCCLURE: Well, I
did a little research.
And about 900 years ago, the
area where they were found
were the Mogollon.
And they were a very
spiritual religious tribe.
I mean, like a lot of
these other tribes,
they also believed they
came from star people.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>MCCLURE: So it's
almost so fitting
that it's called
the Starchild skull.
But something that they
do that's interesting
is they have a ceremony for when
they die, a burial ceremony.
And they put these decorated
plates on their faces.
And they poke a
hole, so their spirit
can go out and live
with the village.
And then they're buried
under their homes.
These two skeletons did not
have any kind of pottery
found that we know of.
They weren't buried under homes.
They were almost outcasts.
And she had so many
concussions, who
knows what her mental
state was like then.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>MCCLURE: So, yeah.
>>NOORY: Now, what would have
caused those concussions?
Falls?
Beatings?
>>KLOETZKE: All of it.
>>NOORY: All of it?
>>KLOETZKE: All of
the above, absolutely.
It wouldn't feel normal--
>>MCCLURE: Yeah, [INAUDIBLE].
>>KLOETZKE: --for
you and I and Kerry
to walk around with these.
But they're finding that
people in these types
of situations of probable
abuse or aggressive force--
>>NOORY: But definitely blows
to the head of some type.
>>KLOETZKE: Yes, yes.
>>MCCLURE: Yeah.
>>NOORY: How about the child?
Any blows to the head?
>>KLOETZKE: We
couldn't find any.
And what's difficult
about looking
for some of the anomalies
on the Starchild skull
is we've realized that,
unfortunately, it's
been polished, sanded,
cleaned, varnished, lacquered.
Over the years, the skull
has, through its lifetime--
allegedly, when
Melanie and Lloyd first
got it, it was
mounted on a plaque,
because it was on someone's wall
for many years and on a mantle.
And I look at the little skull.
And he-- the one thing
that's not disputed
is that he's 5-years-old.
And this little guy,
I kind of feel like--
>>NOORY: It's kind
of sad, isn't it?
>>KLOETZKE: It is.
>>MCCLURE: Yeah.
>>KLOETZKE: It is, very sad.
>>NOORY: So let's look at
the Starchild reconstructed.
OK, here we have Lloyd Pye, of
course, holding up the replica.
Or is that the authentic one?
What do you think, Chase?
Is that the real deal?
>>KLOETZKE: It would
be the real deal, yes.
>>NOORY: It is the real
deal, OK-- which, of course,
the replica looks pretty
identical to that.
It is unusual.
I mean, there's no construction.
So they put it together.
It looks like one of those
martians in the martian movies,
doesn't it?
>>MCCLURE: It does.
It looks unusual.
>>NOORY: It is weird.
>>MCCLURE: [DEEP SIGH]
>>NOORY: I mean, if it were
human, it's not normal.
That is a given, right?
>>MCCLURE: That's true.
>>KLOETZKE: The
reconstruction was
done without the other
parts of the anatomy
or his skull put
back into place.
So it looks completely
different when
you add the features that you
know were there at one time.
>>NOORY: It does.
It does.
>>KLOETZKE: Like, under
the eye sockets are broken.
And it's clearly
broken, which affects
how shallow the measurement is.
But once that's reconstructed
back to a normal,
they're still a little shallow.
But it does change
the reconstruction.
But that is something
that the advancement--
and the more we know in
each year-- that's probably
not something Lloyd would
have had access to when
that was done the first time.
>>MCCLURE: Mm-hm.
>>KLOETZKE: Now, we have
access to FBI forensic artists.
They do this to
solve major crimes
all over the world with MI5--
she works very closely with.
Now, we have access to
those people to be involved.
It's amazing.
>>NOORY: I'm just
wondering that,
because the child was different
and because of the concussions
on the female, if this
child wasn't subjected
to some kind of abuse.
>>KLOETZKE: I worry about that.
>>NOORY: Because
it was different.
>>KLOETZKE: Yes,
absolutely-- or unproductive.
900 years ago with
these small communities
or Native American tribes,
they survived off each other
having talents.
And everybody chipped in.
And if you were a
child that was going
to grow up to be a burden
and not a contributor,
chances are that you
probably wouldn't
have been treated very well.
>>NOORY: It's too bad the
child can't come back and talk
about what happened.
>>MCCLURE: I know.
This touches my children's
hearts so deeply,
because I have a
special needs child.
And so my son looks at that.
And I'm like, there might
be children in your class
with some of these issues.
>>NOORY: Same things, yeah.
>>MCCLURE: And
today, we find ways
to educate them and help
them find some kind of work
and treat them like people.
Back then, who knows
how they were treated.
>>KLOETZKE: [INAUDIBLE]
>>NOORY: Why did you initially
get involved in this project
after the fact?
>>KLOETZKE: Basically
because, when she first
pulled the skull out, George,
the first thing I felt
was immediate sympathy--
immediate sympathy.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>KLOETZKE: And I thought--
>>NOORY: I feel that too.
>>KLOETZKE: Yeah,
and it's strong.
And I actually got a
little emotional at first.
And once I reconciled that Lloyd
asked Melanie to continue--
don't forget the Starchild.
>>NOORY: When he was dying?
>>KLOETZKE: Don't let it end.
>>KLOETZKE: Yes.
And she made that promise that
she would finish his work.
And that meant a lot.
And the fact that I
knew I could do it.
It's a physical artifact,
for a lack of a human aspect.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>KLOETZKE: But we had to
treat it, this little skull,
like evidence and
an artifact, which
proved to be very
difficult, especially
going in with a Dremel
and taking more samples
off this little guy.
>>NOORY: All right, so--
>>KLOETZKE: It was brutal.
>>NOORY: --you continued
with the project.
>>MCCLURE: Mm-hm.
>>KLOETZKE: Yes.
>>NOORY: Did you do
additional DNA testing?
>>KLOETZKE: Yes, absolutely.
We had to, because
the DNA now, of today,
is so much more advanced--
>>NOORY: It is.
>>KLOETZKE: --than when-- yeah--
when Lloyd had--
>>MCCLURE: More advanced.
More cheap also.
>>NOORY: And--
>>KLOETZKE: Yeah.
>>NOORY: --what
were the results?
>>KLOETZKE: The
results with the DNA--
first, we got the
mitochondrial back,
which confirmed the three other
tests that Lloyd had performed,
from Trace Genetics, Bold Lab,
and also Stanford University.
So we had ours done
by a Paleono lab,
because we're realizing that--
>>NOORY: Reputable?
>>MCCLURE: Yes.
>>KLOETZKE: Yeah, absolutely.
>>MCCLURE: They
specialize in ancient DNA.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>KLOETZKE: Yes, because
that's how specialized it's
become these days.
So it was wonderful to
have access to that.
But it absolutely came
back-- mitochondrial--
as haplogroup C1.
>>NOORY: What does that mean?
>>KLOETZKE: Native American.
>>MCCLURE: Mm-hm.
>>NOORY: Not extraterrestrial?
>>KLOETZKE: No, and--
>>NOORY: You say that with
a little hesitation, Chase.
>>KLOETZKE: Well, I say it
because I was so disappointed.
Because even the phenotypic
divergence, differences--
>>NOORY: Don't be disappointed.
The truth should not
be disappointing.
>>KLOETZKE: I wanted
an alien or a hybrid.
>>NOORY: Well, I'm
sure everybody does.
But--
>>KLOETZKE: That's
why we started.
>>NOORY: I think, first and
foremost, you want the truth.
>>KLOETZKE: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: You want to
>>MCCLURE: The main goal.
>>NOORY: And I think,
god rest his soul,
Lloyd Pye would have said, darn!
I wanted this to be
a real star child.
But at least we know what it is.
>>KLOETZKE: Right.
>>MCCLURE: Exactly.
>>KLOETZKE: And I
think the example--
and why it's so important
to talk about the Starchild,
even though it has come out
human, because the nuclear DNA,
we were able to extract--
very difficult to do.
I was worried sick.
I've done many
extractions of DNA,
especially from the skulls,
because I've worked in Peru
on the elongated skulls.
Actually, a little over
300 forensic samples
validated so far in my work.
So I was still nervous.
He's a little guy.
And as a mom and a grandmother,
that never left me.
So the dignity-- we hope--
we know that Lloyd also
appreciated, because that
was something he always felt
was appropriate.
So when the nuclear
DNA came back,
as haplogroup Q, which
94% of that group
comes from South America--
>>NOORY: Right.
>>KLOETZKE: So this
is all making sense.
>>NOORY: Easy to determine.
>>KLOETZKE: Yes.
>>MCCLURE: Mm-hm.
>>NOORY: Easy to determine.
>>KLOETZKE: Yeah.
There was, even in
the phenotyping,
which is your genetic
codes or your genetic DNA
with your environment.
It brings out that
phenotyping result. And--
>>NOORY: Voila.
>>KLOETZKE: --everything.
Yeah.
>>MCCLURE: Amen.
>>KLOETZKE: There
was just nothing
contra-indicating
anything but human.
>>NOORY: I had the
great opportunity
to have Lloyd Pye on
"Beyond Belief" with me
a few years ago.
Here's a brief
little clip of that.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- Well, I'm very confident now.
I'm very confident that
it is an alien skull.
It's not a human
hybrid, as we thought
it was for quite some time.
I think it's, without
question, going
to prove out to be an alien.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: It did not
prove out to be an alien.
>>KLOETZKE: No.
>>MCCLURE: No.
>>NOORY: What happened, in
terms of what he thought
and what you discovered?
I mean, why did he go
on a limb like that--
>>MCCLURE: I think--
>>NOORY: --and say that?
>>MCCLURE: --he was given
wrong information from someone.
And we discovered
that by calling
National Institute of Health.
Some of the records he
was given were falsified--
>>NOORY: Ah!
>>MCCLURE: --by someone
working with him.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>MCCLURE: And
that was a really--
>>NOORY: That's a
huge difference.
>>MCCLURE: --huge discovery.
>>NOORY: Huge discovery.
>>MCCLURE: And so
a lot of people--
>>NOORY: And
disappointing discovery.
>>KLOETZKE: Of course, yes.
Very disappointing,
because you need
to believe what you're
reading, when there's
an investigation going on.
And I'm sure he
believed them too.
>>KLOETZKE: Of course,
I believe this man
falsified his credentials.
And he would be--
>>NOORY: This man not
being Lloyd, of course.
>>MCCLURE: No.
>>KLOETZKE: No, no, no, no.
>>MCCLURE: Someone
doing the testing.
>>KLOETZKE: Of course not, no.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>KLOETZKE: But there is an
unnamed geneticist that is
frequently--
>>NOORY: Why would he do this?
>>KLOETZKE: Why would
the geneticist--
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>KLOETZKE: --do this?
Attention, probably, to
be involved with something
as remarkable as, possibly,
extraterrestrial evidence.
>>NOORY: He had
Lloyd so convinced
that this was an
extraterrestrial.
>>KLOETZKE: Yeah, George,
it's really sad, because--
>>NOORY: I mean, you heard him.
He went out on a limb like that.
>>KLOETZKE: Right,
but he clearly
believed he was a geneticist.
And we found out, he
is not a geneticist.
He's a virologist--
>>NOORY: OK.
>>KLOETZKE: --that
works at a university.
>>NOORY: So Lloyd was misled.
>>KLOETZKE:
Absolutely, absolutely.
>>MCCLURE: Unfortunately.
>>NOORY: And your
work and your homework
found out that he was misled.
>>KLOETZKE: Yeah, yeah.
A lot of it has to do
with my skill-sets too.
Trained as a private
investigator,
I definitely was suspicious
with some of the claims
that we were reading
on the Starchild skull.
Like, the skull is six times
stronger or three times
stronger than a normal skull.
It's like, well,
who tested that?
Where-- so as we dug deeper
into some of the work,
we realized that Lloyd
trusted his experts.
>>NOORY: Right--
>>KLOETZKE: And unfortunately--
>>NOORY: --he did, explicitly.
>>KLOETZKE: Absolutely.
>>MCCLURE: Exactly.
>>KLOETZKE: And
then there was one--
>>NOORY: He believed
a lot of people.
>>KLOETZKE: Yeah,
there was one who
absolutely discredited
and falsified information
and reports to Lloyd.
>>NOORY: I wish Lloyd
were still with us today--
>>MCCLURE: Maybe he is.
>>NOORY: --to be sitting here
getting his reaction to this.
>>MCCLURE: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Would he
agree with you?
Or would he fight if?
>>KLOETZKE: I think
he would agree.
In fact--
>>MCCLURE: I think
he would agree.
He wrote in his book--
he had some goals.
And one of them was to
have citizens look at it
and figure out the truth.
And the other one was to have
real scientists do some testing
on it, without being
afraid of what it could be.
And we did both of those things.
So I think--
>>NOORY: So he had his doubts
about this project, as he was--
>>MCCLURE: He did.
Well
>>NOORY: --dying, didn't he?
>>KLOETZKE: Yes.
>>MCCLURE: He did.
>>NOORY: Well, you
got the answers
that he was looking for
after all these years.
>>KLOETZKE: I think it was,
now, with the education
and the discoveries that we're
finding just out in space--
it's like, daily,
headlines are coming out
of more planets, more
evidence of hybrid race
on this Earth, even in
antiquity, or antediluvian.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>KLOETZKE: It's just amazing
at this point when things--
we're using the most incredible
higher-than-normal credential
experts.
Every single person that
looked at this skull
was mainstream science, with
above-normal credentials.
And I think he would have
been so happy with that.
It's all he wanted.
>>MCCLURE: Yeah.
>>KLOETZKE: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Can we throw
a conspiracy in here
and say that the DNA testing
was misled to mislead you
and you, Kerry?
Is that possible?
>>KLOETZKE: I say, no.
>>MCCLURE: I say, no, too.
>>KLOETZKE: Because,
honestly, the DNA
that we had-- the results
were verified by the three
he had done.
>>NOORY: What if government--
>>KLOETZKE: If they
were all [INAUDIBLE]----
>>NOORY: --got to this
guy, or the DNA company--
>>MCCLURE: We--
>>NOORY: --and said, we do not
want you to tell them that this
is extraterrestrial--
>>KLOETZKE: Well,
it's a Canadian lab.
>>NOORY: --and scared the
living daylights out of them?
>>KLOETZKE: I don't think so.
This is also the same
lab that's doing--
>>NOORY: I can't get a
conspiracy out of this, can I?
>>KLOETZKE: Only
because there's--
>>NOORY: I want this
to live on forever.
>>KLOETZKE: I know, I know.
>>MCCLURE: Well, we could say,
it's just as much of an alien
as, perhaps, we all are.
Does that help?
>>KLOETZKE: You know,
because there is something
that we're learning when I
was doing some of the metal
forensics that I was
involved with that we've
talked about before.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>KLOETZKE: We're
not finding exotic
unheard of elements
when we're dealing
with these oddities
in the meteorites
and out in space and the
properties on other planets.
How far would our DNA--
what would be the--
>>MCCLURE: Exactly.
>>KLOETZKE: --phenotypic
divergent of human?
What would that look like?
Especially if it's true
that they are the makers,
we were intelligently designed.
I think back on
Steven Greer's Atama--
>>NOORY: Yeah--
>>KLOETZKE: --mummy--
>>NOORY: --the
little tiny thing.
>>KLOETZKE: --how close--
or just a 3% difference
in the phenotypic and the genome
produced such an odd result.
>>NOORY: All right,
so let's assume
the DNA testing that you
had done is accurate,
and this is not an
extraterrestrial by any means.
Does that negate the
possibility that we've
been visited from other
extraterrestrial races?
>>MCCLURE: Oh, not
at all, not at all.
I think the fact that
we said, it's human,
and we did all this
testing, and we
had these credentialed
scientists come and help,
I think we're going to
find more and more things,
the more digging,
the more cities grow,
the more we find
things in caves.
And we need to know how
to do the science right.
>>NOORY: So you think--
>>KLOETZKE: Because some
day, we'll find one.
>>NOORY: --something's
out there--
>>MCCLURE: Yeah.
>>KLOETZKE: I absolutely--
>>NOORY: --if we find it.
>>KLOETZKE: I absolutely do.
>>NOORY: It could be
in Nazca, you know it?
>>MCCLURE: Yeah, exactly.
[INAUDIBLE]
>>KLOETZKE: I think
it's possible.
>>NOORY: We'll find out.
>>KLOETZKE: Absolutely.
>>MCCLURE: Yeah.
>>KLOETZKE: I think
it's possible.
I think, now, with the
availability to science that's
coming on board
and participating
that we have
available to us today,
we can get those answers.
Those mummies in Nazca
can be identified.
And do we have to worry
about government conspiracy?
Absolutely.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>KLOETZKE: But we
have to play the game
of the scientific community.
Which means we have to
follow their protocols exact.
There are no shortcuts.
And if we're not doing it right,
they're not going to play ball.
>>NOORY: If there--
>>KLOETZKE: And I
don't blame them.
>>NOORY: If there are government
conspiracies, if there are,
why?
Why not just come out
and tell us the truth?
Hey, folks, we've been visited.
We're being visited.
This is happening.
Why hide it?
>>KLOETZKE: Yet, we
have story after story.
There's more than enough
admissible evidence
that there is a cover-up.
There is absolutely a cover-up
of not only extraterrestrials
but a hybrid race
that was here before.
>>NOORY: Mm-hm.
>>KLOETZKE: Or possible
extraterrestrials here on Earth
back, way back,
in ancient times.
There is absolutely a cover-up.
Anything that goes against
our Darwinian theory or--
>>NOORY: What are they
afraid of though, Chase?
>>KLOETZKE: I think they're
afraid of the truth.
I think they're afraid
of losing power.
>>NOORY: But the truth
should set them free, right?
>>KLOETZKE: It's the
power and control,
if you're prone to that.
They've had it for so long.
You'd think that
the Catholic Church,
when the Conquistadors invaded
Peru or invaded South America
and decimated the Inca,
where did all that gold go?
Where did all the riches go?
Where did their--
>>NOORY: I wish
we could find it.
>>KLOETZKE: Right.
Or the Mayans-- so even
our religious institutions,
for 2,000 years,
have had the ability
and have taken exoteric
knowledge away from us.
>>NOORY: There have been--
>>KLOETZKE: It's controlled.
>>NOORY: --historically,
other creatures
discovered on this
planet that we really
don't know what they are.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- Ricardo, these creatures
are very, very strange.
- Yeah.
- They're anomalous.
I don't know, really,
what I'm looking at.
But you have done DNA
testing on this creature
and this creature.
- Yes
- Tell us what you've found.
- This DNA sequence
was made from five
different molecular
biology laboratories--
- OK.
- --in several
parts of the world.
And the common results has--
the DNA is very similar
to DNA from humans--
- Mm-hm.
- --in 98.5% similarity.
- It's very strange.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: That's our
buddy, LA Marzulli.
And I believe the winged
object was knocked out
of the air by somebody with
a shotgun who fired at them.
But when I was looking
at that, I'm thinking,
might that just have
been an aborted fetus
in its developmental stage
or something like that?
>>KLOETZKE: The-- what
they call the fairy--
especially in the x-rays--
see in those little
pieces of metal--
did look like buckshot.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>KLOETZKE: Unfortunately,
George, since then
it has been examined
in a pathological way.
So it was opened up.
And it was hoaxed.
>>NOORY: No!
>>KLOETZKE: It was--
>>MCCLURE: Yeah.
>>KLOETZKE: --a hoax.
However the other
little being, I
would love to get
my hands on and--
>>NOORY: That could
be a little baby.
>>KLOETZKE: I wouldn't know.
>>MCCLURE: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Something like that.
>>KLOETZKE: Yes, but I
absolutely would love--
>>NOORY: Well--
>>KLOETZKE: --to work that one.
>>NOORY: Let's talk, for
a moment, about people
who would hoax things.
What are they doing this for?
Obviously, nobody's going
to make a lot of money
on that thing.
Even if you sell it for $100--
big deal.
Why destroy science
by hoaxing something?
>>KLOETZKE: I wish
I could answer that.
Being a truth-seeker and someone
who loves truth probably more
than anything else,
other than my free will,
I'm not sure why
somebody would--
>>MCCLURE: Attention.
>>KLOETZKE: --to
to such trouble.
>>MCCLURE: It's
[INAUDIBLE] fake.
>>NOORY: I wanted that
to be a little fairy--
a real little fairy--
>>MCCLURE: I know.
>>NOORY: --that, historically,
people have talked about.
>>MCCLURE: Exactly.
>>KLOETZKE: And it was
so difficult to debunk,
because every step
led to biology.
It was biological, biological, .
Because they extracted--
>>NOORY: Well, they didn't
find buckshot in it though,
didn't they?
>>KLOETZKE: Yes.
>>NOORY: So you think
someone shot it just
to keep the myth going?
>>MCCLURE: For the story?
A talented [INAUDIBLE].
>>KLOETZKE: I'm not really sure.
I could--
>>NOORY: Or they planted it.
>>KLOETZKE: Yes, probably.
>>NOORY: You would
think a shotgun,
on a creature like that,
would have obliterated
the poor thing, right?
>>KLOETZKE: Right.
>>NOORY: It would
have blown it up.
>>KLOETZKE: Right.
>>MCCLURE: Yeah.
>>NOORY: So maybe they did just
put little BBs in there and--
>>KLOETZKE: Yeah.
>>MCCLURE: Mmm.
>>KLOETZKE: LA has put
out a brand new video.
>>NOORY: One of his
"Watcher" series?
>>KLOETZKE: Absolutely.
In fact, it's the last
of his "Watcher" series.
He's moved on.
I've worked very closely
with LA, as you know.
And he completely
tells every detail
about how they discovered
the hoax at the end.
>>NOORY: How disappointing.
>>KLOETZKE: Right,
but I love that we now
have a community of
researchers and investigators
that will expose successful
investigation results.
And that's how we see it.
Whether it's extraterrestrial,
a hoax, or something
that we can determine
that it's a known object,
that's a success.
It's successful, because
there are many times we never
get an answer.
>>NOORY: With incredible
scope now of social networking
and getting news out--
I mean, when stories break, I
hear about them instantly now.
Even me, being in the
business, sometimes
didn't hear about it right away.
But now, it's instant.
>>KLOETZKE: Yes.
>>NOORY: It's on
your smartphone.
It's there.
>>MCCLURE: Right.
>>NOORY: You read it
and go, oh my god!
This happened--
dot-dot-dot-da-da.
What about fake news?
It travels at the
same rate and speed
>>MCCLURE: Or faster.
>>NOORY: Doesn't that
affect things too?
If somebody put out that that
little creature was real,
90% of the people who get
it by social networking,
would believe it.
>>MCCLURE: Right.
>>NOORY: That's dangerous.
>>MCCLURE: Well, they're all
starting to crack down on that.
YouTube, Facebook,
and Google are all
doing policies right now--
>>NOORY: But how do you know
what's right and what isn't?
>>MCCLURE: Well,
that's the sad part.
Because I think it's Facebook,
YouTube, and Google who
are saying, they're going
to decide what's fake
and what's not.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>KLOETZKE: Right.
>>NOORY: If somebody says--
>>MCCLURE: And
that's scary for--
>>NOORY: --a UFO landed--
>>MCCLURE: --our field.
>>KLOETZKE: Right, absolutely.
>>NOORY: --and an
extraterrestrial
was running around and
picked up my dog and left,
that may be a real story.
>>MCCLURE: Right.
>>KLOETZKE: Right.
>>NOORY: Now, but you tell
Facebook that, they'll go, no--
>>MCCLURE: I know.
>>NOORY: --come on.
>>KLOETZKE: Right.
>>MCCLURE: But that also means,
we need to play their game.
We need more proof,
more provable proof--
>>KLOETZKE: Yeah.
>>MCCLURE: --for
them to say, OK--
>>NOORY: It is.
>>MCCLURE: --we'll put
up there in the ranks.
>>KLOETZKE: The bar is raised.
And I hope that I had
some small part in that.
Raising the bar--
>>NOORY: I'm sure you did.
>>KLOETZKE: We need
to h it admissibility.
We need to meet a
burden-of-proof.
Our witnesses deserve that.
When we take on
the responsibility
of being an
investigator, we also
must take the responsibility
to be really good at it.
And what are the
needs of the field?
What are the needs of the
reports we're getting?
Well, obviously, it's forensics.
How many more lights-in-the-sky
stories do we need?
We got it.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>KLOETZKE: We know that there's
many things going on that
we're not told about
or we don't know,
whether it's ours or theirs--
secret space program
or extraterrestrial.
We don't need that.
What we need is probative.
And this is how we're going
to outshine the critics.
This is how we're going to
meet that burden-of-proof
and scrutiny, from not only
science but newsmakers,
politicians--
which I've included in our
agenda, because I'm a lobbyist,
an official lobbyist with
the State of Georgia--
now have access to
the House and Senate.
What can I do with that?
How can Kerry and I,
with the field reports,
start educating properly
and keep them away
from these fake headlines.
DNA proves naphthalene.
Never happened.
>>NOORY: Huh.
What would Lloyd Pye say to you
today, if he were on the set
with us, after hearing about
the DNA that you just uncovered?
>>KLOETZKE: I would
hope, beyond every--
(VOICE BREAKING) I would
hope he'd be proud and happy.
>>NOORY: It's emotional for you.
>>KLOETZKE: Yeah.
>>NOORY: I think he'd be happy.
I think he'd be proud.
I think he'd be a little
disappointed that it
wasn't extra-terrestrial.
>>KLOETZKE: We were too.
>>NOORY: But he'd be happy
that he got the truth.
>>KLOETZKE: We went through
a little grieving process,
and poor Melanie
more than anyone.
>>NOORY: Well, I know, talking
to my producer, Tom Danheiser,
that you went through
a period where
you weren't sure
you really wanted
to tell people what you
had finally discovered,
in deference to Lloyd.
>>KLOETZKE: Right.
>>KLOETZKE: But you quickly
came to the realization,
no, the right
thing is the truth.
>>KLOETZKE: Because I believe
that was his goal always,
no matter how he believed.
We believed, right
up until the end
too, that it was
possibly hybrid.
We always maintained that.
And I think, with--
yeah, I just--
>>NOORY: Well, maybe one
day, you'll find that hybrid.
>>MCCLURE: I hope so.
>>KLOETZKE: We're looking.
>>NOORY: Just keep looking.
>>MCCLURE: I hope so.
>>NOORY: Keep looking.
>>KLOETZKE: I have a DNA
kit with me pretty much
everywhere I go.
And when I hear stories
or run into people,
I'm still asking for that DNA--
still asking for it.
And I've actually had two
people take me up on that.
Because the other thing
that we provided-- this
isn't all-for-nothing--
was genetic coding
from 900 years ago
from a group of people.
And we can strengthen
the haplogroup.
We can strengthen the
database and the provability.
And any time you're
submitting anomalous-type DNA,
you're contributing significant
science in the database.
Which is why LA's
team, that I'm part of,
has been invited back to Peru
by the Ministry of Culture
to actually do DNA sampling.
It's just adding
more and more data,
which is desperately need.
>>NOORY: The more information,
the better off everything is.
>>KLOETZKE: Right.
>>NOORY: Specifically,
Chase, what
were the results of
your forensic studies
on the Starchild project?
>>KLOETZKE: Specifically,
that the Starchild's mother
was haplogroup C1 and the dad
was haplogroup Q, which makes
the Starchild Native American.
>>NOORY: And when you
talk about C1 and Q,
exactly what does that mean?
>>KLOETZKE: C1 is
a Native American--
>>NOORY: Bloodline?
>>KLOETZKE: It is.
And Q-- 94% of that haplogroup
is found in South America.
What about those, now, who
are skeptical that it's
human, but still alien?
What do you say to them?
>>KLOETZKE: The science
doesn't care what we believe.
At this point, everything,
almost every single accusation
or observation
from the Starchild
being totally different,
we've answered scientifically
and through a scientific process
of not just a proclamation
from one scientist and Kerry
and I said, yep, that's it.
It's repeatable, testable,
with the exact same results.
Which is why the DNA
results that we received
were acceptable, because
they were the same results
of Lloyd's past three.
They're all saying
the same thing.
>>NOORY: Does your data--
does your truth destroy what
the UFO community's looking for?
>>KLOETZKE: Not at all.
Not at all.
In fact, it adds
to a lot of this.
Because every time we have
an investigation like this
and we dig in scientifically and
do the math and the algorithms
and the DNA testing
and take care of things
at a higher-advantaged
level, we're
adding more and more
to the community
on everything else
we investigate.
I believe that, when
we raised the bar,
people are going to meet it.
We have to start providing
admissible results.
We have to start meeting
that burden-of-proof.
And our evidence and every
word out of our mouth
has to be probative.
Meaning, it's important
and would pass scrutiny
in a court-of-law.
>>NOORY: What has been
the reaction to your peers
and from the public to this?
>>KLOETZKE: It's been
overwhelmingly awesome.
I think people, like us, were
just ready for the truth.
They've waited decades
for science to let us in
and to learn exactly
what was going on.
We have really received
such a small portion
of negative comments.
And truthfully, I think
every comment we've gotten
that was negative was from--
>>MCCLURE: [INAUDIBLE]
>>KLOETZKE: --a fake account.
>>NOORY: Ah, OK.
>>KLOETZKE: Which is
why we blogged about--
>>NOORY: That's out there.
>>KLOETZKE: --fake news.
>>NOORY: Yeah, you got to blog.
There's a lot of
haters out there.
>>MCCLURE: And they,
obviously, didn't read--
>>NOORY: Lot of haters.
>>MCCLURE: --our report either.
Or--
>>KLOETZKE: Right, they
couldn't have read the report.
Right.
>>NOORY: Did the report
shock you at all?
>>KLOETZKE: No, because
it was a process for us.
I'm sure it would have been
for people that haven't really
been following it
for a few years,
especially after
Lloyd passing away.
We lost-- we lost something.
And I'm not sure people
were ready for someone else
to pick up the ball.
>>MCCLURE: Yeah.
>>KLOETZKE: It was another one
of my concerns taking on this
project--
is, do people even want somebody
else finishing Lloyd's work?
>>NOORY: Or just for people
to guess what it could be.
>>KLOETZKE: Right, right.
What was better
for the community?
It's always going
to be the truth.
>>NOORY: Did anybody
try to dissuade you?
>>MCCLURE: Well, sure.
>>KLOETZKE: Like, experts?
Or colleagues?
>>NOORY: Push you back
from doing the research?
Anybody tried to
talk you out of it?
>>KLOETZKE: Not really, mm-mm.
>>NOORY: No blowback
on this for you?
For your career?
>>KLOETZKE: No, I think,
because it's the results.
I'm actually surprised
about that, George.
I was really waiting
for the shoe to fall.
Because we expected
some blowback.
And we just have
not received it.
>>NOORY: You didn't get it.
>>MCCLURE: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Was it
difficult or easy
to find experts to
conduct the DNA testing?
>>KLOETZKE: I don't know
if it's my approach that's
very different.
I've never had trouble finding,
not just experts or scientists
that were mainstream and
legit, but their name
has to be record or
out to the public.
They have to have their
name, their profession.
We have to have the
availability to vet and--
>>NOORY: Sure, absolutely.
>>KLOETZKE:
--scrutinize the people
that are making these
claims, especially
after what happened to
Lloyd after that one.
>>NOORY: The legalities
behind the testing
are always very vague, somewhat
difficult. Why is that?
>>KLOETZKE: Because
the haplogroup
that the Starchild has come
out with is Native American.
And there are very--
>>NOORY: There are
stringent rules.
>>KLOETZKE: Yes.
>>MCCLURE: Yes.
>>KLOETZKE: Very
stringent rules.
>>MCCLURE: And nobody was
really willing to tell us
exactly what we
were allowed to do
and what we weren't
allowed to do.
So we really spent
months deciding,
do we even continue
with this DNA testing?
>>KLOETZKE: Yes.
>>MCCLURE: Because there is a
possibility we weren't really
allowed to do that.
>>NOORY: That's a good point.
>>KLOETZKE: We could
have been arrested.
>>NOORY: Well, you got it done.
>>KLOETZKE: Yeah.
>>NOORY: You got it done.
>>NOORY: What drives you, Chase?
Why do you keep doing this?
>>KLOETZKE: I like to take
corners on two wheels.
And it's the adventure.
I love this job.
I love the mystery.
I love solving complex
cases, getting to the truth.
I believe that UFOs are real.
And the story's not going away.
So I hope I'm employed
till the end of my life.
Because as long
as I'm able to, I
want to rock and roll and
kick down a few more doors.
>>NOORY: And how
about you, Kerry?
>>MCCLURE: I just want
to find the truth.
I just want this to not
be fringe science either.
I wish universities
would start looking
into this stuff more and more.
And I want people who
have had experiences--
like my daughter
had an experience--
I don't want them to feel like
they have to keep that quiet.
That's a real thing happening
to thousands of people.
I just want people to know,
there's something out there.
And I want to know what that is.
>>NOORY: Well, at least
we have the answers now,
at least on this phase of it.
>>MCCLURE: For this one thing.
>>NOORY: For this one thing.
>>MCCLURE: Yeah.
>>KLOETZKE: Yeah.
>>NOORY: So far.
Good job.
Folks--
>>KLOETZKE: Thank you.
>>NOORY: --for years, I have
talked with the late Lloyd Pye
about the Starchild project.
And for years, we've tried
to get the information out
about whether it is a
hybrid or whether it
is a total extraterrestrial
or whether it's just
a deformed human being.
Well, because of the work
of Chase Kloetzke and Kerry
McClure, we have the answer now.
At least we know.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
[MUSIC PLAYING]